# AndroidArcadeApp

## Project description
Game centre phase 2 is a project created by Joshua, Julian, Uzair,
Jonathan, and Sid for CSC207 fall 2018 software design. The game centre allows users to
sign up and log in to their accounts to play the sliding tiles, checkers and 2048. Users are able to
 track their high scores and the high scores across accounts on personal and global leaderboards.
 Additionally, users can customize new games based on the number of redos they want and the board size.
 Users can save games and load previously saved games to resume play at a later time.

## Setup instructions
Clone the repository in Android studio using the following link https://github.com/osheng/AndroidArcadeApp
Once the project finishes cloning, close the project. In Android Studio, open project at GameCentre level in file explorer. As the project builds, a window, "unregistered VCS root detected",
may appear. Click add root. The project should be ready to run at this point. Please run emulator with Pixel 2 API 27 (Android 8.1).
When you run the app, it might ask you whether you want to allow USB debugging. If it does, click OK and wait for the "Welcome to GameCentre!" screen to appear.

## Project structure
The Fall2018.csc.2017.CoreClasses package contains generic controller, model and view classes including account manager, account, board, board manager, tiles, savable and generic activity classes including GameSelectActivity, GlobalLeaderBoardActivity, LoadGameActivity, LogInActivity, PersonalLeaderBoardActivity
and Settings Activity. The child classes for each game are saved in the sliding, checkers and twenty packages respectively. Unit tests are saved in their associated game packages as well.

## Standard and Bonus functionality
Users can bypass logging in or signing up for an account by selecting guest.
The app checks that new users do not select existing usernames. The password is hidden when signing up or logging in to an account.
Users can log out of an account and create a new account or sign in to another account using the log
out button.

Users can customize the board size of a new game and the amount of undos that a user
can select during game play. Any number of undos can be entered. Game boards save after
 every move and are automatically stored as game files that can be selected by selecting
load games. LeaderBoards track top scores in user accounts and across user accounts with personal leaderBoards and the global
leaderBoards. High scores are added to leaderBoards as games are completed.

## Sliding tiles
We added a feature to sliding tiles where the board solvable class checks if a newly generated board is solvable based on an algorithm specified in the class docstring. As a result, all boards generated by sliding tiles can be solved.

## Checkers
Game play occurs between two human users. The red tile player always initiates game play and thus only games won by that  player are recorded in leaderboard. At the beginning of a turn, a player is not obligated to take a piece if other moves are available. However, once a player has taken a piece, if another piece can be taken by the same tile, the player must take it. 

## 2048
Game play is initiated by swiping left, right, up or down. On each move, a new tile is randomly added
to the board and tiles are merged into each other if they have the same value (ex. Tile 1 = 2 and Tile 2 = 2 merge to
become a tile = 4). In our version of the game, we decided that every swipe will merge tiles until no tiles adjacent in the direction
of the swipe have the same value. (For instance, if an 8 is on top of a 4 which is on top of a 4, swiping down will merge them
all into a 16 and not two 8's as in the original version of the game.)
Game play ends when tiles are cannot be merged and the board is full.


